When I was asked to deliver a Tedx talk about my identity, I felt concerned. Because I have no idea who I am. 
I felt this bewilderment acutely in high school, as my mind would often wander in so many directions, I couldn’t say what I truly cared about. I may have related a little too much to the Emily Dickinson poem, “A Certain Slant of Light,” in which she writes, “Heavenly Hurt, it gives us – / We can find no scar, ...”. I was an angsty teen. 
The Ancient Greek philosopher Heraclitus said, “I went in search of myself." But he couldn’t find a self, he could only find change. “No man steps in the same river twice,” he said, “because it is not the same river, and he is not the same man.” 
The Ancient Greeks pondered whether identity can be determined at all. 
In Ancient Greece, philosophers debated a thought experiment called the Ship of Theseus. A mythical King of Athens sailed around the Mediterranean on a ship. As his ship aged, his sailors would occasionally replace the hull’s old planks of wood with a freshly cut board. Eventually, they had replaced every plank that had comprised the original ship. Furthermore, they used the old pieces to slowly build a new ship. The philosophers asked which of these two ships was the original ship. This raised the paradoxical question of whether identity is predicated upon form or matter. 
Are we who we always have been since birth? Or are we who we build ourselves into? Or both? Or neither? 
Wrestling with thought experiments like this is important, not only in education, but for life. 
As a high school student, awkwardly captaining my “original ship,” I was painfully aware of the fact that I was never going to be good at abstract math like calculus or chemistry. However, I knew that I could write well. With this insight into my own strengths and weaknesses, I began striving to shape my own education. I joined various classes, clubs, and activities to search for who I am. 
In high school, a teacher named Mary Lou Brewer taught my Honors US History class. In class, she held simulations and role plays. We students would represent one of the delegates to the Constitutional Convention, or one of the countries pursuing its interests in the leadup to World War I. This approach to history felt alive to me. In university, I majored in History, and discovered my interest in Asian history. I also took a couple elective classes in International Relations. Later, in my 20s, I did a Masters degree in International Relations with a focus in Conflict Studies. My early fascination with history and conflict, fostered by a visionary teacher, gave me the plank in my adulthood “ship” of preparing me to teach AP US History. 
In high school, I published a few poems in my high school’s student literary magazine. This grew into my second major in university, creative writing, and for my senior undergraduate thesis, I wrote a 25-page book of poems. This has been a major plank of my adult “ship”. For over 20 years, I have run creative writing workshops wherever I’ve lived. I’ve brought likeminded people together and built up a creative writing community around me. Four years ago, in Zhuhai, as an EAP teacher, I designed a college creative writing course for EFL students. I still use parts of that course in my American literature classes and electives today. Here in Shanghai, I run a poetry workshop through a writers’ collective called Inkwell. Through Inkwell, I’ve met several published authors. I’ve also published a couple poems and a short story in the last couple years. 
In high school, I took English literature and a Journalism elective, taught by another great teacher, David Bernstein. I also joined the student newspaper, which he coached. At the newspaper, I wrote an investigative article about the suspension of a student and how it related to the superintendent’s campaign to get reappointed. The superintendent tried to censor our newspaper. I also did an internship at a local newspaper, where I had the opportunity to interview the governor of my state about issues relevant to high school students. These experiences gave me a lifelong interest in journalistic ethics, uncovering the truth in complex situations, and expressing it concisely to the public. This challenge became an important plank of the “ship” of my career. For about 5 years between 2013 and 2018, I worked as a writer and editor for Reverb Press, an online news commentary magazine that I helped found along with 3 other editors and 20 other writers. At the height of our magazine’s influence, in the middle of 2016, we reached about 1.1 million readers a month. Almost 1% of the adult population of the United States was reading our work. It was the most intensely fast-paced work I’ve done in my life. 
Finally, in high school I grew interested in theater. A passionate music teacher named Margaret Reidy directed the musical “Little Shop of Horrors” at my high school. In the play, I performed the role of the shopkeeper, Mr. Mushnik. I also acted in a couple Shakespeare plays and modern dramas such as The Lottery and Flowers for Algernon. In my 12th grade year, one of my friends and I co-directed a one-act play and we won an award in a competition. This year, after a hiatus of over 20 years, I’ve gotten involved in local theater again, here in Shanghai. In March, with a group of friends, I joined a 24-hour play competition. The experience inspired me to write a feature-length play this year. I found a producer and director in Shanghai who agreed to stage my play. Seven actors were cast and rehearsed my play for three months. The play that I wrote was performed here in Shanghai in late November and early December. My passion for theater was a long-disused “plank” of my original ship that I’ve recently repurposed to continue building myself as an adult. 
I didn’t know it when I was in high school, but my search for self through dabbling in many interests, formed the planks of the adulthood “ship” of my career, my hobbies, and my passions. For me, the arts and humanities have always felt like a stage for discovery and expression. As an educator, I believe it’s important to be not only someone who imparts knowledge, but also a practitioner in the subjects that we teach. 
Even if you don’t share my passion for the liberal arts, I believe that you should explore your interests and talents in high school courageously, even recklessly, in whatever directions they take you. Whether they take you into new clubs and electives or well beyond the walls of our school campus into the wider community and world. You never know what you might discover in searching for your own inner compass, and how that search might shape your future career. 
Today, I still have so many different interests that I still feel that I don’t know who I am. But where I was filled with uncertainty as an adolescent, today it excites me that my identity is always a work in progress. I hope that you will find a similar kind of thrill in life. As long as we are alive, the mind keeps tacking into the wind, sails full, not heading toward any final harbor, even as you keep rebuilding its hull. 
In high school, the ship of self that you are sailing will become the planks of your adulthood and your future career. Who are you now? Who will you become? How will you build yourself and rebuild yourself in the future? 
You may not have answers yet. Maybe you never will. That’s okay. Because, ultimately, who we are is not a destination. Who we are is our own search for meaning itself. 